NDC Linux ESSENTIALS - CHAPTER 10 -


Cat : uses of cat is to display the content of text files
less :   paging capability. It is usually the default pager used by commands like the man command.
more : It is similar to `less`, but it predates it, dating back to the Unix era.

(HELP -- Press RETURN for more, or q when done)  This is the navigation bar.

The keys that are identical in more and less:
Spacebar : Window forward
Enter : Line forward
B :Window backward
Q : Exit
H : Help 

head and tail :The head and tail commands are used to display only the first few or last few lines of a file ,
the commands display ten lines of the file that is provided as an argument.

|: The pipe | character can be used to send the output of one command to another. 
Example : ls /etc | head
output :
adduser.conf
alternatives
apache2
apparmor
apparmor.d
apt
arp-scan
avahi
bash.bashrc
bash_completion

Input/Output Redirection
STDIN:
Standard input, is information entered normally by the user via the keyboard. When a command prompts the shell for data, the shell provides the user with the ability to type commands that, in turn, are sent to the command as STDIN.

STDOUT:
Standard output,, is the normal output of commands. When a command functions correctly (without errors) the output it produces is called STDOUT. By default, STDOUT is displayed in the terminal window where the command is executing

STDERR:
Standard error, is error messages generated by commands. By default, STDERR is displayed in the terminal window where the command is executing

. Redirection is achieved by using the arrow < > characters.

Example :  echo "Line 1" > example.txt

short : The sort command can be used to rearrange the lines of files or input 
 Option
The -t option specifies the field delimiter
The -k option specifies the field number
The -n option specifies the sort type.

wc :The wc command provides the number of lines, words and bytes (1 byte = 1 character in a text file) for a file, and a total line count if more than one file is specified. By default, the wc command allows for up to three statistics to be printed for each file provided, as well as the total of these statistics if more than one filename is provided.
 Example :wc /etc/passwd /etc/passwd-
outout :
  35   56 1710 /etc/passwd
  34   55 1665 /etc/passwd-
  69  111 3375 total       

cut :The cut command can extract columns of text from a file or standard input
The -f option can specify which fields to display, either as a hyphenated range or a comma-separated list

grep : The grep command can be used to filter lines in a file or the output of another command that matches a specified pattern

Basic Regular Expressions
.:Any single character

[ ]:A list or range of characters to match one character
If the first character within the brackets is the caret ^, it means any character not in the list

*:The previous character repeated zero or more times

^:If the first character in the pattern, the pattern must be at the beginning of the line to match, otherwise just a 
literal ^ character

$:If the last character in the pattern, the pattern must be at the end of the line to match, otherwise just a literal $ character

?:Matches previous character zero or one time, so it is an optional character
+:Matches previous character repeated one or more times
|:Alternation or like a logical "or" operator
 -lab 10 Done
-Exam 10 Done


